Welcome to J. W. Broadcasting. In this month's program, we'll examine what the good news is
and why it's such a blessing. We'll consider how examples from the Bible and our modern history
encourage us to declare all of the good news boldly. We'll learn from a faithful brother in
Rwanda how we can maintain our zeal for the good news despite persecution and imprisonment.
And we'll enjoy a new music video that reminds us how much joy we can have sharing the good news
with others. This is J. W. Broadcasting for October 2023. As Jehovah's Witnesses, we have a wonderful
privilege, the privilege of declaring the good news, but just what does that good news include?
If we know the answer, how will that motivate us to be even more zealous as we declare the good
news? Let's consider the answers to those questions. First of all, what is the good news?
We get an idea by looking at how this expression is used in the Bible. For example,
we read of the good news of the kingdom, the good news of God, the good news about Jesus Christ,
the good news of the undeserved kindness of God, the good news of peace, and the ever-lasting good
news. So we can say that the good news refers to the rule of God's kingdom and salvation by faith in
Jesus. This includes all the truths about which Jesus spoke and the disciples wrote.
Through the prophet Isaiah, Jehovah spoke about the preaching of the good news. Isaiah's prophecy
described the purpose and effect of the good news to be preached, particularly from the time of
Messiah's coming. Notice what's recorded at Isaiah 61, 1 and 2. The spirit of the sovereign
Lord Jehovah is upon me, because Jehovah anointed me to declare good news to the meek. He sent me
to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the wide opening of the
eyes to the prisoners, to proclaim the year of Jehovah's good will, and the day of vengeance of our
God, to comfort all who mourn. This good news would have a positive effect on those who'd listen to
it. It would bind up the brokenhearted, and comfort all who mourn. This is likely the kind of good
news that we talk about most in our ministry. The prospect of enjoying everlasting life in an
earthly paradise under the rule of God's kingdom provides hope to our listeners and motivates them
to love Jehovah. However, the good news also includes something else, something that we may not
talk about as readily in our ministry. You may have noticed in Isaiah the expression,
and the day of vengeance of our God. So there's more to the good news than just the year of
Jehovah's good will. We see this clearly in the words recorded at Revelation 14, 6 and 7.
And I saw another angel flying in mid-Heaven, and he had everlasting good news to declare to those
who dwell on the earth, to every nation and tribe and tongue and people. He was saying in a loud
voice, fear God, and give him glory, because the hour of judgment by him has arrived. So worship
the one who made the heaven, and the earth, and the sea, and the springs of water.
Evidently, the everlasting good news also includes a judgment message.
What is the hour of judgment mentioned in this verse?
According to some reference works, the original language term here rendered judgment refers to a
legal process of judgment, a scrutiny of conduct. So God is looking closely at conduct, how people
act, that is the basis for judgment. The hour of judgment mentioned in this verse includes both the
pronouncement and the execution of divine judgment against all false religion, Babylon the Great,
and all other parts of Satan's system of things. Of course, Babylon the Great in this world's
institutions have already been judged. However, their sentence has yet to be carried out. When will
that happen? Toward the end of the hour of judgment which will conclude at the climax of the last
days with the destruction of the present wicked system. That's why the actions of people today
matter so much. It's increasingly urgent that we proclaim the judgment aspect of the good news
to them because the time when God will execute judgment is fast approaching. Why, though, can we say that
this judgment message is good news? It's good news for honest hearted ones because it means the
end of wickedness, including all forms of injustice and violence. For those who are suffering as a
result of the bad actions of the wicked, this judgment will bring great relief. It will be a clear
demonstration of Jehovah's love and justice. However, it will be bad news for those who stubbornly
refuse to live by Jehovah's righteous standards. In Bible times, Jehovah warned of various acts of
judgment that he would bring against those who deliberately disobeyed his commands. In each case,
he informed the affected people well in advance and instructed them to make changes that were in
harmony with his will. To encourage the right response, he often used his loyal servants on earth to
announce his judgments and to convey a sense of urgency. For example, think of Noah. For years,
he fearlessly warned the immoral and violent people of his day about a coming global flood.
He also told them what they needed to do to survive. What about Moses and Aaron?
Jehovah used them to warn Pharaoh and his servants. For example, think about the specific warning
Jehovah gave regarding the seventh plague, a devastating hailstorm. At Exodus 9, 18, and 19, we read
that Moses and Aaron gave the people the time and the information they needed to protect themselves
from the storm. Yes, Jehovah always makes sure that people have sufficient opportunity to heed his
warnings. 2 Peter 3.9 says, He does not desire anyone to be destroyed, but desires all to attain
to repentance. The good news we are now preaching informs people not only of the marvelous hope for
the future that Jehovah offers, but also of what we must do to enjoy that hope. That's why we
need to let people know about Jehovah soon to come judgment. Notice how the preaching of the good
news is tied to divine judgment at Matthew 24-14. And this good news of the kingdom will be preached
in all the inhabited earth for a witness to all the nations, and then the end will come.
Note how the good news serves as a witness to everyone who hears it. Depending on what they do
with it, it will result in their eventual acquittal or condemnation. Just as a court takes time to
hear all the facts and to weigh all the evidence, Jesus is wisely using his time now to judge people
fairly. Both he and Jehovah continue to analyze the conduct of individuals and how they respond to
the good news that we're preaching. How should what we've just considered about the good news affect
us? For one thing, we will not hold back from sharing all of the good news. We will talk about the
future blessings God has promised, as well as God's judgment of the wicked, which will make these
blessings possible. Imagine for a moment that you knew that a dangerous storm was bearing down on
where you lived. What would you do? Wouldn't you try to be as prepared as possible so that you could
successfully weather the storm? Wouldn't you warn your family, friends, even neighbors, and try to help
them to do the same? In a similar way, we try to help as many people as possible to prepare for the
impending execution of Jehovah's judgments on this world. While being tactful, we do not hold back
from letting people know what they need to do to be saved. For example, we help our Bible students
to understand what they need to do in a frank yet kind way. We help them to see what changes they
need to make to harmonize their lives with Jehovah's standards. Our new study tool, Enjoy Life Forever,
is designed to help us do such teaching. It includes several features to help our Bible students
qualify to preach the good news as soon as possible. For example, at the end of each section,
there's a review with questions, some of which are quite pointed. Considering these questions with
our students can help them to see what they need to do to apply what they've been learning in their
Bible study. We'll have an opportunity to watch a video later on in this program that will demonstrate
some of the features in Enjoy Life Forever and how we can use them to help our Bible students.
Understanding the importance of the good news will also motivate us to preach and teach it with
urgency. We'll strive to have a full share in all aspects of the ministry available to us.
Rather than taking a casual approach, we'll be zealous and work at it whole sold as for Jehovah.
Why? Because we realize that people's lives are at stake. They urgently need to hear the good news
and respond to it. Of course, we all have different circumstances and abilities. We know that
Jehovah and Jesus take this into account. In Jesus' illustration of the talents, not all the slaves
were given the same number of talents. Rather, the talents were distributed according to their ability.
This reminds us that Jehovah and Jesus are aware of our personal situations. They know what we
can reasonably do and they never expect anything beyond that, nor do they compare us to our fellow
brothers and sisters. Knowing this is very comforting because we may not always be able to do all
that we want to do in the preaching work. That's often the case with our dear older ones and others
who cope with serious limitations. However, we can all feel confident that as long as we do our personal
best, Jehovah will be pleased with us. I'll never forget our work and the love that we show.
So may each of us continue to do all that we can to share the good news, all of the good news.
By doing so, we will experience great joy and contentment as we participate in this life-saving
work, helping as many as possible before it's too late. Do you sometimes worry, though,
how people might react, especially to a stronger judgment message?
Facing this fear is not new. God's people in ancient and modern times have dealt with it, too.
In the following demonstration, let's see what one brother is moved to do after meditating on their
examples. Good morning. Sorry I was running a little behind this morning, but at least I come
bearing gifts. Oh, no worries. Thank you. I could really use it today. You are also thinking about
that announcement about the special preaching campaign? Yeah, yeah, it was. Don't take what I'm
going to say the wrong way, but don't you think the message will be preaching is pretty harsh?
No, I wouldn't say that, but it's definitely very direct. I mean, people already get defensive
whenever you challenge their beliefs, and this is going to be next level.
This isn't going to be the easiest message to deliver, but you know, it's not the first time we've
done this. Really? Absolutely. I don't know if you remember me telling you that my families
originally from Quebec and my dad was part of an incredibly hard-hitting witness back in the 40s.
I looked this up last night. He had to distribute a tract that called out the local religious leaders
as hypocrites. What were they doing? They were inciting their followers to mob violence against
the witnesses, telling them to vandalize our properties, even getting brothers falsely arrested
and imprisoned. Wow, and they had to distribute that tract during the violence. They had to.
Jehovah wanted to show how unjust their actions were, but I remember my dad telling me,
he said that initially he was pretty terrified. Yeah, I mean, that's how I feel. I'm
I'm terrified. It's normal to feel that way. I've been thinking about it myself,
and I thought it'd been an account in Exodus. It's where Moses tells the Israelites to splatter
the blood of a ram on their doorposts in order to avoid the effects of the last plague.
And I thought about how some of the Israelites might have felt about doing that back then.
Everything.
Brams are sacred to the Egyptians. Yeah, this would be an affront to Amin wrong.
How are the Egyptians going to react? I know, I've thought about that too.
Does Moses know what he's asking us to do? Brothers, I don't know if we have anything to worry about.
We don't have anything to fear. Think of how Jehovah's protected us with these last legs.
And as for the blood, it's not a matter of offending man.
It's a matter of protecting us. It's showing who's side we're on. Jehovah's side.
Looking back, what the Israelites did was actually good news.
It meant their deliverance. And it's the same with any message we bear today.
Let me show you one of my favorite scriptures in Isaiah chapter 41, verse 10.
It says, Do not be afraid for I am with you. Do not be anxious for I am your God.
I will fortify you. Yes, I will help you. I will really hold on to you with my right hand of righteousness.
The fear we feel is natural. But remember, Jehovah was with the Israelites.
He was with my dad. And he will be with us. The message we are sharing is good news.
The faithful record of God's servants, ancient and modern,
strengthens us to carry out our preaching work and declare the good news.
Meditating on Jehovah's unfailing support can help us overcome any fear we may have.
Our Bible students face many challenges as they learn about the good news.
They may need to make drastic changes to harmonize their lives with Jehovah's standards.
This can be difficult. How can we help them make these changes so that they can begin sharing
the good news alongside us? Enjoy life forever has been designed to help us do just that.
Let's see encouraging evidence that this powerful tool is really working.
When I heard about the new publication to enjoy life over a book,
I was very nervous. It was change, and sometimes I don't like change, but I know that it was for
the best. I just needed to try it out. I didn't have a progressive Bible study in years,
but the book, the way it was designed, was to help me as a teacher.
Once the features of this new publication were explained, it was going to help us to help our
Bible students begin preaching in the ministry, as well as helping our Bible students make changes
in their everyday life. And we were really excited about using those features to help our students
to do so. I like the some people say section at the bottom of the lesson, because that helps prepare
her for informal witnessing. It helps them to formulate in their own words how to defend their
faith or how to preach informally or use those opportunities to share what they just learned.
This was her way of learning how to feel comfortable talking to others about Jehovah and teaching
others about Jehovah. You're right away from lesson one, lesson two, encouraging them to recognize that
it's not just about what they're learning, but it's also about what they can share with others.
As the Bible teacher, it helps us to round out the rough edges so that when they do speak to others,
it's tactful. You know, I put her in that place like, what would you say if someone told you that
Jesus was God? Like, how would you answer that question? And that went to her heart and she was able
to answer the question, well, I would tell them this. I would say this because that's exactly what
happened. She was telling her family about the lessons that she was learning the things that she
learned from the Bible. So all along, she was informal witnessing and not realizing that's what she
was doing. So when you see that connection between what they're learning and how they can use what
they learn, there's just it's just a wonderful feeling because you recognize that now they'll be
able to teach somebody else. One thing that the book also does is that it progressively helps the
student to make changes in their personal life in order to live by Jehovah's standards.
Now, this section review is a series of questions that usually has a key question or a key verse
related to that lesson. So before going on to the next section, it's almost like a filter. It stops
them, helps in the review and helps the teacher realize, hmm, they don't quite understand that point.
They are excellent because they can get the expressions from your student where now you can
really focus on what exactly are the issues that they're having. I was able to see if she had any
gray areas if there was a problem or she didn't understand something. Are they saying the book says
or you taught me this, then you know, okay, they need to be reminded of the scriptures and you need
to see that truce a little bit deeper into their heart. That's where I saw my student express
herself and let me know things she was thinking or things that were bothering her. She realized
that she needed to make changes with. The questions are a bit more personal than maybe you would have
asked in the past. They're a bit more pointed than maybe we have the habit of asking. Comparing my
questions I used in the past or what's in the enjoy life forever book, I mean, I wasn't getting
anywhere. These questions really help the students speak their heart and I'm so glad they're there.
It takes time. It also takes patience and love on our part to let them make those changes so
they can qualify to become an unbeatenized publisher. Dispublication to enjoy life for a book,
it's like no other. It makes it much easier for them or you can help them much faster to get there.
That book has helped a lot. It definitely boosted my confidence. It was designed to just
bring people right into the truth. Like she said, the book was me especially for her. When the time
came for her to do door-to-door ministry, she was ready. My student has already started several
Bible studies. This study program has trained him now to be a Bible teacher.
If you follow everything that's in the book, it's like a complete study. There's little that we can
add ourselves. It's all there. Enjoy life forever has many well-worded questions, some of which are
quite pointed to help our students reason on God's Word and to think deeply about the changes they
need to make to please Jehovah. The publication also shows them how to preach informally
and stresses how important it is for all of us to share what we know with others.
Everyone who serves Jehovah has the responsibility to declare all of the good news.
Paul reminded us at First Thessalonians 2, 2, that we would need boldness to preach the good
news in the face of much opposition. How can we do that? Let's learn from Brother Gaspar,
Rwaka Bubu's experience, and see how he maintained his zeal through persecution and imprisonment.
During the 1970s, the preaching work was not recognized in Rwanda. When my family and I received
a letter of invitation to go serve there, we were living a good life. We had some concerns,
but praying to Jehovah and asking him for direction helped us. I disgusted with my wife,
and we were both positive about it. We made a request for legal recognition in 1982, but instead,
myself and two other brothers were thrown into prison. One day on a Sunday,
the Archbishop came to the prison and he announced, the wear of those Jehovah's Witnesses.
As a result of that, he raised the curiosity of his listeners. The prisoners wanted some
explanations from us, because they could not understand what he meant. Many began to join our
meetings. The Archbishop was not happy. He grew even angrier, and in order to stop our activities,
he told his close followers to beat us up when we attended the following meeting.
Two young prisoners approached us, and they said, today, they planned to beat you up.
When our meeting time came, we didn't show up. Another religious group came and took our
place at night, so they were the ones who got beaten up. From that time on, no one disturbed us
any longer. We continued preaching and attending meetings peacefully.
After spending two years in prison, we were freed. Outside of prison, the brothers were not
free to preach. Many more brothers and sisters kept being arrested and imprisoned. Later,
I was put in prison again, and the imprisoned brothers rejoiced over my presence, saying,
we now have our circuit overseer visiting us. They were very happy. We started working together
in harmony and preaching. Each one was assigned a territory. Some were discouraged, but I tried
to strengthen and encourage them to hold on to Jehovah. Then, brothers from all over the world
started to write to the head of state. Letters were coming in huge quantities. Those
letters had a good impact, because finally, one day, an announcement was made on the radio by
the president himself, saying that he pardoned Jehovah's witnesses. The people on the street
started shouting at us. Jehovah has won. Jehovah has won. He has won. The work of Jehovah's witnesses
was legally recognized in 1992. Sadly, in 1994, during the time of genocide,
some of our brothers died and others faced serious challenges. Some fled to Goma as refugees.
I received the assignment to oversee the relief funds that were coming from Kinshasa.
One day, I had just collected the relief money for our refugee brothers,
and I was stopped by two policemen. They possibly thought that they could get that money,
so they asked me to go with them to their superior. As we were walking, I remember the prayer
that our daughter Debra said during the genocide, while the whole family was praying silently.
She prayed out loud, pouring her heart out to Jehovah. Thanks to that, they refrained from killing us.
This moved me to pray in my heart too. As soon as I said, Amen. The two policemen turned right
and went to meet their colleague. I also saw in front of me a brother holding a black suitcase,
looking exactly like the one I had with the money. I handed him mine full of money,
and he gave me his with literature inside. Then, without delay, the policemen said,
let's go now. Let's go. We walked all the way to the chief of police, but they found nothing.
They were holding their chins in their hands, saying, this is a miracle. How could the money we saw
turn into books? In all the trials I've encountered, I really saw Jehovah's powerful hand.
As a house built on a rock that is struck by storms, hit by anything, but remains firm.
We too met with many trying challenges, but Jehovah continued to make us firm,
just like a house built on a rock. A scripture founded Isaiah 54 verse 17 explains that in reality.
All those fighting against us, no matter who they are, will never succeed. Up until this moment,
although my physical strength is gradually fading, I feel that the power to serve Jehovah is growing
so much. In fact, I feel more powerful than ever. My determination is that, no matter the situation,
I will continue to serve Jehovah. I've met Brother Rwaka Bubu and personally heard many of his
amazing experiences, some of which he acted out for me. The experience of his daughter's prayer
can be found on pages 198 and 199 of the 2012 yearbook of Jehovah's Witnesses.
Brother Rwaka Bubu's daughter was six years old when she prayed in front of a group of soldiers.
The soldiers were planning to kill the entire family, including Brother Rwaka Bubu's five children.
However, her innocent and earnest prayer touched the hearts of those hardened soldiers.
Today, Brother Rwaka Bubu deals with various health issues that resulted from his persecution
and imprisonment. However, Brother Rwaka Bubu's reliance on Jehovah and his love of the good news
has enabled him to maintain his zeal even as his grown older. Sharing the good news informally
can have powerful results, but to be effective, we need to be prepared. How? As we'll see in the
following morning worship, we can learn from the example of the great teacher, Jesus.
Jesus as the great teacher created opportunities to witness to others. And of course,
an excellent example of that is found in John chapter 4. So if you turn with me please to
John chapter 4, let's analyze how Jesus was able to do in formal witnessing and we'll see what
lessons we can learn from it. So looking at John chapter 4 to get the background, we see in
verses 3 through 6, he mentions that Jesus left Judea and he was going towards Galilee.
But he decided to go through Samaria and ended up in Cyca.
Looking at the study note, we notice that this was a journey that involved an
ascent of some 3,000 feet. Now that's a very high elevation to climb up to. In rough terms,
we could say it's like going up 30, sorry, 300 floors or stories in a building. Imagine how you
would feel at the end of that. So if Jesus and His apostles had made that journey that morning,
it's no wonder that in verse 6 it says that he was tired out. He was sitting there
and it mentions in verse 6 to it was the 6th hour or about midday. So imagine the setting,
Jesus is in Samaria, he's tired and it's about midday. Not the best circumstances for starting
to witness. So what's the first lesson we learned from this? Jesus didn't wait for the perfect
opportunity to inform a witness. Now he used whatever opportunity came up and created opportunities.
So of course the woman comes along and notice in verse 7 how Jesus introduced or started this
conversation. He simply said, give me a drink. He didn't dive into some deep spiritual discussion,
but rather just started talking to the woman. For what lesson do we learn from that? You see if
we're interested in witnessing to others informally, perhaps all it takes is just greeting them,
saying hello, and of course if they're not even willing to start talking to us, it's very hard
to go much further. So that's the first lesson. How did the woman respond? Well, we'll notice as we
go through John chapter 4, there were at least four potential problems that Jesus had to avoid
as he continued this discussion. The first of these problems is recorded in verse 9,
this straight away she says, you're a Jew and I'm a Samaritan woman. How come you're talking to me?
So she referred to his appearance, his background. Well, in a similar way today sometimes someone
may take a look at us and refer to our color or racial background or nationality and that could
be a negative thing. But what did Jesus say? Well, he didn't respond and say, you know,
I'm a nice person, that's how come I'm willing to talk to you. Now, he completely avoided that
whole issue and focused on the spiritual message that he wanted to convey to her. So we noticed
that in verse 10, he speaks of the free gift of God and he also mentions that this woman could get
living water, not just the water that she was interested in at that point. Now, when we analyze
how the conversation went, we can see clearly that Jesus laid the foundation here at this point
for what he was going to say later. You see, he started with water, then he mentions God's gifts
and living water and we'll see how he develops that a little further as we go on.
Well, what happened at that point when he offered this living water? Well, in verse 11,
notice she says, you don't even have a bucket. So in other words, she was basically saying,
I don't believe you. The well is very deep. The study note says maybe about 75 for deep. So
this is a negative reaction on her part, followed up by something else that was very controversial
in Jesus' day. She says, do you think you're better than our forefather Jacob? Now, that was very
controversial because the average Jew in those days would have objected to that comment,
saying that she wasn't a relative of Jacob. So here we have another two possible problems.
How did Jesus handle it? Well, he just focused back on the spiritual message. As we mentioned,
as recorded in verse 10, he started with water, God's gift and living water. And then if we look
at verse 14, he speaks about drinking water that you would never get thirsty at all again. And then
he introduces the concept or thought of everlasting life. So obviously Jesus had in his mind a plan
of action or a little outline how he could develop a certain theme. And that was to do with water
leading to everlasting life. Well, how did the woman respond at that point? Notice verse 15,
she says, sir, give me this water. Now, was she saying, please, I really want it? Or was she perhaps a
little cynical, maybe even a little psychastic? Well, it's hard for us to tell. It doesn't seem
until later that she fully believed Jesus. But whatever the case, it perhaps could in a modern
setting be like her saying, that sounds good, but it's too good to be true. Did that stop Jesus?
No. Jesus then basically changes the direction of the conversation and gives her an opportunity to
show her honesty. Jesus realized that she was coming at that time of the day to avoid perhaps
others seeing her. Why? Well, in verse 16, Jesus says to recall your husband. She says, I don't have
a husband. Very honest comment to a stranger. Then Jesus said, you're right. You had five husbands,
and the man you're with now is not your husband. You have said truthfully. Well, now what do we learn
from this? You see, although Jesus knew that she was living in an immoral relationship,
still, that wasn't the focus. He gave her an opportunity to express herself, and then what did he
do? He commended her. So in a similar way, it's good for us to always try to find points that we
can commend the persons for, even if they say something that is totally opposite to what the
Bible says. We can at least thank them for expressing their viewpoint and being honest about it.
So as we continue on, we then see at this point, the woman has really taken notice because she says,
I see that you're a prophet. But then the next problem, the fourth problem comes in. What does she
say? Well, we worship here, Mount Gerasim, but you Jews, you say we should worship in Jerusalem.
So basically, a modern equivalent of saying, I have my own religion, and it's different from yours.
Well, how did Jesus deal with that potential problem? But when we look at verse 21, it's interesting
to see how he starts the answer by saying, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain,
nor in Jerusalem, will you worship the Father? So basically, Jesus was just allowing her concern and
saying, well, don't worry, in the future, this is not going to be an issue, whether it's here or
there. And then he goes on to explain, the important thing is to worship the Father with spirit and
truth. So what do we see from that? Jesus tried to help her to see that what she perceived as
being a problem really wasn't an issue at all. It wasn't something they had to go through and
and explain all the details. Of course, he did mention that salvation began with the Jews,
but then he showed her very clearly what she needed to do. Now, why was that so important?
Well, if we turn later to the book of Acts chapter 8 and verse 14, there's a very interesting study
note there that tells us that what Jesus did on this occasion in witnessing to this woman and then
to various ones in her community laid the basis for what Philip, the evangelizer, would later do when
he moved to Samaria, and he would help many there to become Christians. And ultimately, they became
anointed Christians. So Jesus, a conversation here with this woman certainly was very, very successful.
So what have we learned from this discussion looking through John chapter 4? First of all,
Jesus didn't wait for the perfect opportunity. He created that opportunity. Secondly,
he wasn't distracted or sidetracked by the various issues, some of them conversial that this
woman raised, but he focused on a spiritual theme. He had something in mind where he would use
water to eventually describe everlasting life. And then he commended her for her honest remarks
and showed her what she needed to do. What an excellent lesson this is for all of us as we try to
witness to others. Start simple, have a theme in mind and commend the person. What a simple formula.
I'm sure you'll want to try this approach as soon as possible. When we meditate on the good news,
we can't help but want to share it at every possible opportunity. We just can't hold back.
That's the theme of this month's music video.
Our preaching efforts may help people accept the good news. In turn, they'll be moved to share it
with others. And what a difference it makes in their lives. Last month, the first episode in the
new series, imitate their faith, brought to life much of Abraham's story. But what happened next
in the life of this man, who the Bible refers to as the father of all those having faith?
Let's find out in part two. One year ago, Jehovah told Abraham something that seemed impossible.
His wife Sarah would have a son.
Sarah's miraculous pregnancy and Isaac's birth were proof that Jehovah's word always comes true.
As the rains came down, there they were, eight souls, safe on the ark. Jehovah protected Noah's family.
That's why we're alive today. And you know, that's not the only time. There have been many things that
seem scary, but Jehovah always makes sure his promises come true. Think how he helped to protect
your mother when Pharaoh wanted to take her as his wife. Think how he sent angels to save a lot.
Remember, he caused your birth. I'm your father. But Jehovah's your father too. You were part of
his purposeizing. Hard things are going to happen. But remember, we can always trust Jehovah.
Because he always keeps his promises. That's right. Remember the promise Jehovah made to our family?
I will give to you. And to your offspring after you, the land in which you lived is a lasting
possession. And I will be their God. Come here. Hard things did happen. Even in this spiritual
housework, this wasn't just a sibling rivalry. Ishmael's abusive behavior had broken Sarah's heart.
I was that slave girl in her son. Do not be displeased by what Sarah is saying to you.
About the boy and about your slave girl. Listen to her. For what will be called your offspring
will be through Isaac. As for the son of the slave girl, I will also make a nation out of him
because he is your offspring. Though it was hard, Abraham obediently sent Heger and his son Ishmael
away, trusting that Jehovah had his eyes upon them. Take, please, your son, your only son who
you so love, Isaac, and travel to the land of Mariah and offer him up there as a burnt offering
on one of the mountains that I will designate to you. Let's go. In the past, Abraham had asked God
questions about some of his judgments and decisions. But now, his friendship and trust in Jehovah had
grown. He didn't ask anything at all. You stay here with the donkey. The boy and I will go over
there and worship and return to you. Father, yes, my son. Hear the fire and the wood. But where is the
sheep for the burnt offering? God himself will provide the sheep for the burnt offering, my son.
Abraham. Abraham. There he is. Do not harm the boy. Do not do anything at all to him.
For now, I do know that you are God-fearing because you have not withheld your son.
Your only one from me and by means of your offspring, all nations of the earth will obtain a blessing
for themselves because you have listened to my voice. Abraham and Sarah and Isaac all knew they could
have full faith in Jehovah. His promises to them are promises to us. When we immerse ourselves in
familiar Bible accounts, we gain an even deeper appreciation for their power. And more firmly
in bed in our hearts, the lessons we learn from them. In this month's postcard, we'll visit our
brothers in Lesothu, a country in the south of Africa. Lesothu is over 1,000 meters or 3,280 feet above
sea level, with some of its mountain peaks rising three times as high. The majority of its two
million people called Lesothu live in rural areas. Many heard animals or farm for a living.
Weather conditions can change quickly in Lesothu's mountainous terrain, calling for protection from
sudden cold. So the famous Lesothu blanket comes in quite handy, especially in winter,
when the mountains are blanketed in snow. Of course, the good news must be spread despite cold
or heights, as our brothers there have been doing for over 80 years. In 1942, two Lesothu
witnesses who'd learned the truth in South Africa returned to preach enthusiastically in this
challenging territory. Nine years later, there were five small congregations with 63 witnesses.
In the 1960s and 70s, the work continued thanks to the tireless efforts of zealous evangelizers.
Today, over 3,700 publishers conduct over 4,500 Bible studies each month. Because Lesothu's population
is widely spread across a challenging terrain, our brothers exert themselves to preach wherever
the people live. Many of our brothers here climb steep paths to get to their meetings,
especially the 78 publishers of the Makutlung congregation who meet in the highest kingdom hall
in southern Africa. From the heights of Lesothu, the brothers and sisters of the Makutlung
congregation send you their warmest greetings. From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses,
this is J. W. Broadcasting.